---
title: 
date:
---

> A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, 
> the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.

The Second Amendment has long been the armor which the likes of the National Rifle Association (NRA), It's Repbulican (GOP) lackeys, wannabe cops and soldiers, and self-proclaimed "Patriots" who want to play at war, use to protect themselves during the horrifyingly common events that have claimed the lives of over 100 children since Colombine. "Thoughts and Prayers" has been the shield they hide behind as hundreds of lives have needlessly been lost to firearms in school shootings, church massacres, music festival rampages, movie theater murders, and grocery store executions. "Good Guys with Guns" has been the spear they've used to attack any attempt to reign in the carnage and curb the accessability to these instruments of death.

I could, as others have before me and likely will after me, spend thousands of words describing the hypocrisy of those who would allow unfetered access to the weapons of mass murder which allow for such atrocities to become a reality, but that would be a wasted effort on my part and a waste of time for you as the reader. Likewise, spending thousands of words attempting to appeal to the humanity of those who have thus far refused to act, or to shame them into action would be equally fruitless. If the cries of grief stricken parents, spouses, siblings, and friends, or the deaths of hundreds of innocent children have not moved or shamed them into action, nothing I or anyone else could say will do it. Those in power have refused to act on, or actively act counter to, reducing access to these weapons have already decided the lives of our family and friends are a worthwhile sacrifice to maintain their grip on power. Those who place and keep such people in power with their votes have fallen for the fantasies fed to them by the NRA and those they support, or have likewise decided their other pet issues, which are almost certainly as asinine and based on similar distortions of reality, are more important than the lives lost to these weapons of war.

Something that has become increasingly clear is that I, and maybe some of you reading this, have also fallen prey to a fantasy and distortion of reality. I have bought into the idea of the Democrats as an opposing party. This is a farce. The Democrats are as much an oppositional force to the GOP as a strong breeze is an oppositional force to me walking down the street. How and why this is the case is a treatise in and of itself, but the practical result is that the chances of meaningful, lasting change—even in years where the GOP doesn't hold the Presidency and the Democrats have super-majorities in congress—are extremely slim.